### **OER Research Hub Interview Bank**

##### **Introduction**

This Interview Bank provides a selection of questions generated by the OER Research Hub research team. A selection of these \(or versions of these\) questions have been used during fieldwork conducted during the project.

As the project focuses on the impact of OER on learning and teaching, questions have been contextualised to specific roles within this context, e.g. educator, student or manager. However, they can be modified according to your own requirements.

Questions for different groups of interviewee have been placed under the relevant hypotheses. There are two version of the hypothesis name given \(the simplified version is given in brackets\). Some questions replicate core questions from our questionnaire bank. The questions have been loosely ordered into “sets” with related questions, in addition to providing extra stand-alone questions.

##### **How to use these questions**

Some hypotheses are complimentary and relate to specific sectors \(e.g. informal learning\). In addition, some questions under one hypothesis may help provide information for other hypotheses \(e.g. Hypothesis E on critical reflection of educators\). Some of these synergies are noted in the text \(where appropriate\). To help you use the following sets of hypotheses questions more effectively, we have mapped them as follows:

##### **General Questions for Use in Interviews**

* Please could you tell us your name and position and say a few words to introduce yourself.
* What do you think are the biggest challenges in education today?
* What do you think the future of education looks like?
* Could you give me three words to describe \[project/resource/initiative\]?
* At the end of an interview: Is there anything else you’d like to add?

#### **Hypothesis A: Use of OER leads to improvement in student performance and satisfaction \(OER improve student performance/satisfaction\)**

##### **Questions for Educators and Managers**

* Have you used OER in the classroom? If not, why not? If so…
* What has been your experience of using OER in the classroom? 
* What kinds of impact, if any, has use of OER in the classroom had on your students? Can you give me an example\(s\)?
* Since you started using OER in the classroom, has there been any change in your teaching practice?
* Are you satisfied with the quality of OER materials you have encountered?
* Do you think OER helps motivate students? 
* Have you seen an improvement in student performance and/or satisfaction as a result of using OER?
* Do students benefit from using OER? If so, in what ways/how?
* Have you benefited from using OER? If so, in what ways/how?
* Have there been any challenges to using OER?
* Do you think we should have more, or less, OER? Why?
* Do you think it is in the interests of an institution to promote and use OER? Why? Why not?

##### **Questions for Students**

* What has been your experience of using OER for your studies?
* Since you started using OER, have there been any change to the way that you learn?
* Do you feel that you are less or more motivated to study when using OER?
* Has the use of OER made a difference to your studies? If so, how? Why?
* Are you satisfied with the quality of OER materials you have encountered?
* Have there been any benefits to using OER?
* Have there been any challenges to using OER?
* Do you think we should have more, or less, OER? Why?

#### **Hypothesis B: The Open Aspect of OER creates different usage and adoption patterns than other online resources \(People use OER differently from other online materials\)**

##### **Questions for All**

* How do you find resources online?
* What kinds of resources do you look for?
* Do you look specifically for resources that are open? If so, why?
* How do you look for OER?
* Has anybody ever recommended that you use a particular resource?
* How do you use these resources?
* Do you use open resources differently \[to those that are not open\]?
* Do you adapt the resources you find?
* If you adapt them, why? What do you do?
* Can you give me an example?
* What did you do to adapt these resources? Do you have any particular way you approach adaption?
* Is open licensing important to you?
* When you see that a resource does not have a CC license, does this make a difference to your use of that resource?
* Do you think that CC licensing encourages different kinds of study behaviours?
* In an educational context, and perhaps more widely, what does “openness” mean to you?
* Open licensing through Creative Commons is one of the ways in which OER are identified and shared. But when we make something free and easy to copy it can be hard to tell what kind of influence this licensing has. What impact do you think 'openness' has in education?

####**Hypothesis C: Open Education models lead to more equitable access to education, serving a broader base of learners than traditional education \(OER widen participation in education\)**

#####**Questions for Educators:**

* In your experience of either using OER, or being aware of OER initiatives, have you come across any examples of OER widening participation or improving access to education?

  


####**Hypothesis D: Use of OER is an effective method for improving retention for at-risk students \(OER can help at-risk learners to finish their studies\)**
#####**Questions for Educators:**
* Within your own educational context, how would you describe an “at-risk student”?
* Have you used OER with at-risk students?
* What kinds of OER did you use? 
* In what ways did you use this OER? 
* Did your use of OER within this context differ from your normal use? 
* What impact, if any, did using OER with at-risk students have? 
* What kind of feedback, if any, did the students give you?
* Is there a particular group of students that you think stand to benefit the most from using OER?
* Which group of students stand to benefit the most from OER?
####**Hypothesis E: Use of OER leads to critical reflection by educators, with evidence of improvement in their practice \(OER use leads educators to reflect on their practice\)**

#####**Questions for Educators:**
Please note that questions for Hypothesis D re: use of OER with at-risk students could also provide indirect evidence for hypothesis D.
* How has your use of OER had an influence in the way you think about teaching?
* What have you learnt from using OER?
* What changes have you experienced \[as a teacher\] as a result of using OER?
* How has your involvement \[e.g. in a particular project/use of a particular OER\] changed the way you think about teaching?
* How has your involvement \[e.g. in project\] changed the way you teach?
* From your point of view, describe a story that epitomizes the most significant change that has resulted from your participation in \[e.g. in a particular project/use of a particular OER\]. Why was this story significant to you?
* How do you use resources you find online?
* If you adapt them, what do you do? 
* Can you give me an example? 
* How did you go about adapting the resources? 
* What kind of approach did you take?

####**Hypothesis F: OER adoption at an institutional level leads to financial benefits for students and/or institutions \(OER adoption brings financial benefits for students/institutions\)**

These questions are aimed at educators and students who are making use of OER within the context of pilots/institutional adoption of specific resources/state-wide initiatives etc. However, although this hypothesis specifically refers to institutional adoption of OER, all questions could be used where open textbook/whole course OER/specific resources are being used. 
#####**Questions for Students**
* Have you made financial savings through using OER? How?
* What is your impression of the total savings you have made as a results of using OER in the past year?
* Has OER made it possible for you to engage in study which you would otherwise not have been able to afford?

#####**Questions for Educators and Managers**
* Could you tell us more about how your institution adopted the OER you are using?
* What kind of savings for students who use this OER, if any, have you seen?
* Do you think students have saved money by using OER? If so, what is your impression of the savings they have made? If not, why?
* Do you think there are hidden costs associated with the use of OER? If so, what are they?
* Do you think your institution has benefitted from adopting/using OER? If so, how? If not, why not?
* Has there been any financial benefits to your institution from OER use? Directly? Indirectly?

####**Hypothesis G: Informal learners use a variety of indicators when selecting OER \(Informal learners use a variety of indicators when selecting OER\)**

Although this hypothesis is aimed at informal learners, asking students who are studying at an institution about their study behaviours/use of OER outside of the classroom may yield relevant information as some students also undertake additional home study/non-accredited study. Follow-on questions relating to other aspects of informal learning are available under Hypotheses H & K.

#####**Questions for Students**
* Do you use OER outside of the classroom or the context of your studies \(e.g. for home study or non-accredited study\)?
* How do you set about finding OER?
* Is there a typical method you use for finding OER? Could you tell us more about how you find OER?
* Do you make use of any internet tools to find OER? Which tools do you use?
* How do you make judgements about the quality of OER?

#####**Questions for Educators**

* How do you think students find OER?
* How do you think students make judgements about the quality of OER that they find?
* Do you recommend specific OER to your students?

####**Hypothesis H: Informal learners adopt a variety of techniques to compensate for the lack of formal support, which can be supported in open courses \(Informal learners develop their own forms of study support\)**

These questions have been written to follow-on from those in Hypothesis G. See also Hypothesis K.

#####**Questions for Students**

#####**General:**

* Do you feel supported in your learning?
* Can you describe to me how you study?



\[The following is a modified version of the core survey question for this hypothesis\]: Which of these have you used to support your learning with OER?

\[Show cards with the following options\]:

* Discussion with others via social networks \(e.g. Facebook, Google+, MySpace
  \)
* Discussion in online forums
* Discussion with others in person
* Discussion via microblogging \(e.g. Twitter, Tumblr\)
* Discussion via videochat \(e.g. Skype, Google Hangout, Facebook\)
* Consulting and/or editing wikis \(e.g. Wikipedia\)
* Writing or reading blogs
* Writing my own study notes
* Informal study groups
* Use of a learning journal/diary
* Use of additional resources such as CDs, books, video and podcasts
* Use of a study calendar/plan
* Use of digital note taking applications \(e.g. Google docs/drive, Evernote, Videonotes\)
* * Could you tell us more about why you used these? Are there any ways you supported your learning with OER which have not been mentioned? Which of these ways to support your learning with OER might you regularly use?

######**Additional questions re: online courses \(for all interviewees\):**
* Have you ever taken an online open course \(e.g. MOOC\)? Please tell us more about what course you chose and why.
* What kinds of support, if any, were offered in the course?
* Did/do you feel supported in your learning?
* How did you support your own learning?

######**Questions for Educators**
* Some students make use of OER in informal contexts, what do you think are the pros and cons of this type of learning?
* Do you think that students compensate for any lack of formal support? If so, how? If not, why not?

####**Hypothesis I: Open education acts as a bridge to formal education, and is complementary, not competitive, with it \(Open education acts as a bridge to formal education, and is complementary, not competitive, with it\)**

#####**Questions for Educators and Managers**
* Some people believe that OER can make a positive contribution to student motivation and encourage people to move from informal learning to formal study programmes. Is this a view that you would agree with? Why? Why not?
* Can you give an example from your own experience of someone moving from an informal study situation to a formal study situation?
* Did OER have a role in that transition? If so, how?
* What role did the use of OER have in that transition?
* Did OER make the difference?
* In what ways do you think OER might help the transition from informal to formal learning?
* What do you think are the key factors in helping students transition from informal to formal learning settings?
* Are other factors more important? If so, what are these factors?
* What lessons or implications are there for the ways in which educational institutions recruit, motivate and support students? 
* Do you think that open education complements formal education, or competes with it?

####**Hypothesis J: Participation in OER pilots and programs leads to policy change at an institutional level \(OER use encourages institutions to change their policies\)**
#####**Questions for Educators and Managers**
* Has your institution participated in any OER pilots and/or programs?
* How did these pilots and programs come about?
* What was the aim of the pilot/program?
* What kind of impact, if any, did this project/program have on your institutional policy and/or practice?
* What kinds of practices and policies, if any, does your institution have in relation to OER?
* Are you aware of any changes to policy and/or practice that have taken place at your institution as a result of participation in OER pilots and/or programs?
* What is the name of the OER pilot\(s\) and/or program\(s\) which led to changes in policy and/or practice at your institution? \[ask interviewee for reference/future detail, if needed\]
* In the context of your role as a \[xxxx\], what kinds of policies would help you to be more open?

#####For interviewees who have a specific project/repository/initiative based at their institution:
* Do you think that there have been any changes to your institutional policies and practices as a result of \[xxxx\] being based at \[xxxx\]?

####**Hypothesis K: Informal means of assessment are motivators to learning with OER \(Informal assessments motivate learners using OER\)**
These questions have been written to follow-on from those in Hypothesis G and H.
* What motivates you as a learner?
* Have you ever taken a course where you had the opportunity to be awarded a badge?
* Was the course where you had the opportunity to be awarded a badge open?
* When you are using an OER, what helps you to learn?
 
#####\[The following is a modified version of the core survey question for this hypothesis\]: 

Which of the following features have you encountered in your use of OER or open courses? Which, if any, of these have helped motivate you to study?

\[Show cards with the following options\]:
* Being issued with a certificate for participating or completing the course
* Being allowed to progress to the next section if I completed an automatically graded test correctly
* Being able to work through the course with other people
* Having an educator or instructor available to provide support
* Being provided with hints or advice about how to answer a question or perform a task when I clicked on a button
* Being allowed to look back and review my progress through the course
* Being allowed to check whether I had answered a question correctly
* Being given automated feedback on submitted work
* Being allowed to talk with other learners on the course about my experiences \(e.g.through forums\)
* The resource being part of a series of open, online courses which contributed to a recognised qualification
* Being presented with a series of challenges to complete in order to demonstrate skills development
* Being rewarded for participation, skills or knowledge through an online “badge”
* Being required to complete tasks for which an instructor would give feedback
* Being required to complete tasks for which other students would give feedback
* The resource/course being structured to take place over a specific timeframe
* There being virtual seminars where students could interact with each other and an instructor
* Working collaboratively with other people to complete tasks
* Is there any other feature of a an OER or open course that has motivated you to study?
* Which of the features you’ve encountered do you like the most? Do you feel that they have helped motivate you to learn?
* Are you aware of ‘badging’? 
* Do you believe that badging helps to motivate learners like you? Why/Why not?


